These are installation instructions for *alpha* versions of Noweb 3.

Edit the nwconfig file in the root directory.

  1) Set PLATFORM to show how to run pipelines.  Leave this alone for now.

  2) Choose locations for the noweb files, and set the appropriate
     variables:
       BIN        on $PATH, will hold the no binary
       LIB2       a directory to store external stages from Noweb 2
       LIB3       a directory to store configuration and script files
     All of these files are *output* files, where noweb will place
     binaries and man pages that are customized for your installation.
     Therefore you should:
       - make sure you have write permission to these directories.
       - refrain from making them point into the noweb source distribution.

     Your Noweb 2 installation should use Icon; in particular you will
     need at least one Icon-only filter in order to create the woven
     documentation. See http://www.cs.arizona.edu/icon/ for download
     information.

     Installing Icon is a good idea in any case, since Noweb 3 uses any
     external filters that haven't been rewritten in Lua.

  3) Now, set configuration for your system:
     First point a compiler to be used to build the tools and
     library by setting the CC variable in the Makefile:
       CC         the name of an ANSI C compiler
       XCFLAGS    any extra flags for compilation
       LD         what to call to build an executable binary
       RANLIB     how to index an object-code library
     If your system provides tempnam(3), noweb's indexing will be more
     efficient if you add -DTEMPNAM to XCFLAGS given to the C compiler.


  4) Noweb 3 is built using parts of Dave Hanson's CII and PUC-Rio's Lua.
     There's an ugly wart on the installation of CII; you *must* set
     the CIIMAXALIGN variable as explained in cii/install.html, or you
     risk random memory errors, core dumps, or assertion failures.

     The rest of the nwconfig helps protect against a few oddities.

  5) Fasten your seat belt and type `make all install'.  

  6) You can clean up by typing `make clean'.  If you wish, you can
     remove the pre-built sources by typing `make clobber', but then
     you will be unable to build noweb unless you already have noweb.

Instead of editing the nwconfig, you can create a shell script that
invokes make with the proper variables.  `limake' is an example of
such a script.  If you make your own script, call it something else so
it won't get overwritten by the default nwmake when you unbundle a new
distribution.

If you encounter a problem building noweb 3, please send email to
nr@cs.tufts.edu.
