This is Noweb 3.  Noweb 3 is a reimplementation of Noweb using
a customized version of Lua 2.5.  Noweb 3 was conceived and
implemented in 1996 to solve two problems:

  - Noweb 2 was hard to install.
  - Without Icon, Noweb 2 can slow and hard to extend.

For Windows systems, Noweb 2 has disappeared into the ether.  For all
other systems, advances in software and hardware have made these
problems irrelevant: Linux distributions and OSX ports have shifted
installation costs from the end user to the distribution maintainers,
and those same distributions have made it easy to build on fast Icon
code instead of slow Awk code.  Noweb 3 retains some value; it is
more flexible and easier to extend than Noweb 2, but in Fall 2015, as
these words are being written, maintaining Noweb 3 makes no sense.  In
a just world, Noweb 3 would be completely rewritten using Lua 5.  But
that won't happen.

I have used Noweb 3 in production for some years, but I continue to
call this distribution "alpha quality."  Alpha versions are numbered
by date; for example, the first version to tangle and weave itself was
alpha980616.  This alpha version is made available from github
(nrnrnr/noweb3) so that those who wish to play with Noweb 3 can do so.



To get some idea of what is going on with Noweb 3, look at the revised
Hacker's Guide.

To build Noweb 3, you need a C compiler.
The distribution includes:

  lua-2.5      Lua-2.5 (from PUC-Rio, Brasil).
  cii          CII, from Dave Hanson, stripped down to Noweb's needs only.
  c            C source code for Noweb.
  lua          Lua source code for Noweb commands and pipeline stages.
  nocond       A filter that can help build Noweb 3 from sources.
  tex          La/TeX styles/macros.
  tools        Code used to bootstrap the build process.
  xdoc         Documentation, especially the revised Hacker's Guide.

Lua-2.5 and CII are used by permission.

To build Noweb 3:

  1) Edit lua-2.5/config according to the directions.

  2) In nwconfig, define the following directories:
       BINDIR     on $PATH, will hold no
       TEXINPUTS  TDS compliant place to put user styles and macros
       LIB3       where Noweb 3 Lua code will go
     All of these directories are *outputs*, where noweb will place
     binaries and scripts that are customized for your installation.
     Therefore you should:
       - make sure you have write permission to these directories.
       - refrain from making them point into the noweb source distribution.
     Set the rest of the values to items that make sense on your system.

  2bis) If you know a full pathname for test, put it in lua/config.nw

  3) Fasten your seat belt and type `make all install'.
     The system should build with only a couple of warnings:
     It takes under two minutes on a 133MHz Linux box.

  4) If everything installed correctly, you can get the literate
     version by typing `make pdf'.

     The pdf should generate with only these warnings:
      - a warning about a missing `aho:efficent' citation.
      - a complaint about missing doc.bbl.
      - A few warnings about undefined references.
     It takes a similar amount of time as step 3.

  5) If that works, you can get a very basic sanity check by typing
     `make careful'.  This will build Noweb 3 twice --- the first
     time using the code found in tools and a second time using the
     Noweb 3 built the first time.  It then generates the pdf.

     This takes about twice as long as step 3.

  6) You can clean up by typing `make clean', or more likely, 
     `make clobber'.

Noweb 3 uses a new style of invocation

  no weave ...
  no tangle ...

Noweb 3 would not have been possible without the efforts of Garret
Prestwood.


Norman Ramsey
